what to do before
building a website
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out my weekly
email where i'm sharing actual website
and marketing tips useful podcasts free
goodies resources and much more every
monday to kickstart your week with a
bang give it a shot over at
businessgrowth.email so there's two ways
you can think about your website the
first way is you can think about it as
an online business card nothing more an
online brochure to perhaps showcase what
you do and have some contact details and
do nothing more the second way which
we're going to focus on today is to
think of your website as your very best
sales rep working 24 7 around the clock
to showcase what you do how you help
build some trust qualify opportunities
and generate a steady flow of results of
inbound sales leads for your business
let's jump right in i'm going to share
the 11 steps to consider before building
your website the first step is setting
the main goals for your website so what
is the main action that you want someone
when they land on your site to take and
it could be that there's a few main
actions depending on what you do so
maybe you're a b2b service based
business and perhaps you want people to
book a call with your sales team so
maybe that's your cool main call to
action
or perhaps you want people to book a
call and then perhaps you want to
recruit perhaps you're a growing
business and you want to hire so another
thing is you want to send people direct
people to your recruitment page they can
view available listings and submit their
cv and apply for roles or perhaps your
software as a service company and you
actually want people to sign up for a
free trial so your main goal is going to
actually be sign up for a free trial or
view the paid options and sign up
directly there maybe you're offering a
product directly for your site or maybe
you want to drive people to watch some
kind of video to then sign up so you
want to think about what are the actual
results you want here do you want to
drive qualified leads do we want to
drive sign ups do you want to drive
purchases do you want to do a
combination of that plus also higher or
maybe we're using the site to build our
brand reputation so we want people to
kind of have an idea of what we do how
we can help we want to build some trust
with some social proof that we'll talk
about later in this episode so make sure
you have a clear list of exactly what
results you want from this website so
you're crystal clear what the objective
is for the website goals
this leads us nicely on to point two
which is set your main ctas your main
call to actions and call to action
buttons on websites could be anything
from learn more get a quote book a call
book a demo
view our vacancies
sign up for a free trial i like to
recommend making your call to actions
descriptive so they tell people exactly
what you do you get when you click them
i recommend having your main call to
action fixed in your top menu navigation
bar and also place consistently on your
main pages of your website so regardless
of where someone is they can click that
call to action so maybe it's a click to
call so they click the phone button it
gives you a call maybe it takes them to
a contact page making sure they're
consistently placed and they're easy to
find um for example on the
webchoiceuk.com site our main call to
actions on our home page are view our
work or request a quote so that is what
we want people to do want people to
check our work get some trust in what we
do and then book a call book a quote a
time to speak with us when they're ready
so think about what we talked about on
step one the main goals and then think
about what call-to-actions are going to
be descriptive and relevant and place
them consistently on your site i
recommend not having too many
call-to-actions because it can make your
site look untidy and a bit confusing
focus on around two or so
and props a few more but not too many so
it keeps the site clean
focused and drives the activities you
want people to take on your site next up
is customer research so having a website
that's gonna attract build trust with
qualify and convert your visitors from
your marketing efforts into a nice
steady flow of qualified sales leads to
fuel your sales team is most business
owners and marketers dream so talking to
your best current customers or
prospective clients ideal fit clients is
a great way to make sure you're
designing your website for the people
you actually want to do business with
and not just designing it around your
own thoughts your own opinions or your
own ego because ultimately talking to
these people they're your potential
buyers they're the ones who are going to
buy your stuff
so understanding things like what are
their main motivations what are the main
things they actually care about seeing
on a vendor on a company in your spaces
website what's most important to them
what issues they have if you've perhaps
got a current website taking the time to
say look what's working well on this
site what do you think needs improvement
what do you think's missing and then
making a list of the common feedback you
get when you're entering these clients
so you can understand what they really
want to see
what's going to assist your design what
key pages do they care about what
content they care about how can you
leverage their key problems the things
that they really want to fix or their
key aspirations their goals in your
messaging and your website headlines and
your copy how can you make the pages the
design the content super relevant so
it's really going to attract these
target clients and put your website in
the best possible standing rather than
going with your own thoughts and
opinions is a really solid step to put
your website on the right tracks tip
four is your headline so this typically
applies to your home page but you can
also leverage it on key other service
pages and other pages on your website
so i recommend
using something called the grunt test
for your home page what does that mean
well it means if a caveman sitting in
his cave was presented with a laptop
with your website homepage on could he
within a couple seconds grunt exactly
what you do
how it helps them and how to reach out
how to contact you learn more or get in
touch with your business all within a
couple seconds of landing on your site
if not your website's off the mark and
you're probably losing business you're
wasting visitors you're missing out on
conversions because it does not hit that
mark there's a great way to test it what
you can do is send a bunch of people a
bunch of prospects a bunch of people you
know to your site give them your link
people that have never seen it before
and give them a couple seconds on it
give them up to five seconds and ask
them to then reply to you with what you
do how they think your offering helps
and was it easy to get in touch if they
reply with the wrong kind of answers you
know that your headline needs work i
recommend going with something that's
crystal clear literally says this is
what we do or this is the problem we fix
or this is how we improve your business
so it's nice and clear because so many
websites especially in the b2b and
technology space focus on jargon based
words or they try to sound too clever
and as the old saying goes if you
confuse
you lose so being clear you can't
usually go too far wrong with your
headlines you can always adapt over time
as you analyze and ramp up your website
marketing and learn on what's working
and what's not tip number five we've got
thinking about your content and your
main website pages so you've probably
heard the saying content is king so
let's talk a little bit more about why
that's so important for your website so
talking about website pages if you're a
service based business you might have
main headline menu navigation pages for
home
about
maybe case studies maybe pricing
services maybe resources and then
contact as your main core pages you
might have drop downs so services might
drop down to a page for each demographic
or industry you serve or each main
feature that you're offering has or
maybe you serve certain locations or
demographics and resources might have a
drop down for podcasts press releases
articles our blog latest news and all
that good stuff so thinking about the
core menu navigation pages as well as
the sub categories that are going to be
relevant and also making sure you're
thinking about what buyers from any
research or from any customer calls or
sales calls you had have typically said
they want to see on your website before
they're ready to speak to sales and
leveraging that and then when it comes
to the content side of things
making sure that you actually work on
your copy before your design is a really
smart idea because what you'll find is
if you work with a designer or if you're
doing it internally with your own team
trying to design pages first and then
squish all your copy or your content
into it it's gonna be seriously hard
work because you might not have
allocated enough space perhaps in your
hero or your banner area or your body of
your design to actually fit the copy in
nicely so as a result it looks poor it
looks botched it looks squished squashed
so actually doing the copy first means
you could design around your content
your website can look great on mobile
tablets and pc and ultimately you can
give visitors the best possible
experience because you thought about it
first
next up we've got how will you build
trust with your website visitors this is
especially important if you're investing
in things like seo
ads driving people to your site from
your email list from social media and
any other channels
because
people aren't gonna get in touch with
you or buy from you unless they trust
you so social proof is super powerful
here so leveraging things on your
website like
client testimonials
client video reviews
accreditations
things like if you're well ranked with
review sites like g2
trust pilot trust radar all those kind
of review collection aggregation sites
if you've won any specific industry
awards leveraging all these things so as
people scroll through the key pages the
home page service pages
case studies contact page they keep
seeing this social proof
basically backing up your claims that
you can actually do what you say you do
from your customers mouths and other
accreditations rewards and all that good
stuff
so it's building up layers of trust as
people go through prompting people to
eventually have enough trust in what you
do to get in touch and contact you or
buy from you at tip 7 we've got seo
search engine optimization
so
if you want your website to be found on
google if you want to generate inbound
traffic through organic search and build
up sales leads through google
organically seo should really be
considered before you even start
designing or building your website so a
few key considerations are doing things
like keyword research understanding what
you want your website to be found for
when people search for certain services
have certain questions or searching for
your offering on google so eventually
you can come up top and generate those
sales ops from there
and then things like making sure you're
considering a
mobile friendly design making sure the
website is going to load nice and quick
on the page speed
making sure you're going to consider
things like page titles
seo friendly urls so how your website
link is presented things like metadata
meta titles descriptions who actually
shows in the google search results
making sure they're friendly
thinking of things like site maps
and thinking of things like menu
navigation structure and having key
pages for each service product or
location you serve so basically you're
serving up the most relevant helpful
content that's going to answer people's
questions as well so when you're
actually writing your copy you're giving
people the best experience so you're
answering all their questions you're
presenting perhaps unique data points or
stats on how you help what problem
you've solved and also reviewing
competitors so if there's particular
search terms you want to rank for you
type it into google you check out what
your competitors are doing and you look
for angles gaps ways that you can beat
them in terms of the copy you put
together perhaps you're going to present
a unique infographic video podcast some
unique stats on there you're going to
write
different topics in more depth so you're
doing all you can to meet your
competitors those are just a few key
points but i've got plenty of other
podcasts there's one namely specifically
called how to drive revenue with seo so
if you check out that podcast i did a
while back that will give you a lot of
juicy seo tips
tip 8 is qualifying buyers
prospects visitors to your website
especially important if your website
focus is generating sales leads for
yourself or your team
so there's a number of ways that you can
do that
first and foremost sharing pricing
openly sharing your pricing so if you're
a software company maybe you've got
three tiers of levels of price
perhaps not perhaps you offer something
a bit more bespoke a bit more tailored a
bit more custom then you can put ranges
like type a is from 10 to 20k
type b is from 20 to 30k
type c is maybe 30 to 50k as an example
and then you can prompt people to get in
touch with you you can bolster your
pricing page with things like social
proof so customer testimonials customer
review videos all that good stuff and
answering their common objections and
questions to guide them to get in touch
with you things like sharing your
processes so how you work and also
sharing
who you can help
and who you can so being quite open like
this is our
ideal client fit this is exactly the
type of business or demographic we can
serve best so when people flick through
your website they can get quick idea if
they've got the budget to work with you
your processes and if you're a good fit
to do business this repels perfect
clients attracts the right ones keeps
your sales team happy keeps prospects
happy means you can have more quality
buying conversations
tip nine is thinking about any
integrations that you want on your
website so this could be a bunch of
things so for example you might want to
link up to a crm a customer relationship
management piece of software maybe
salesforce maybe hubspot maybe something
else so whenever someone takes a certain
action perhaps they download a guide
perhaps they sign up for your email list
perhaps they request a demo this flicks
straight into syncs up straight into
your crm so it goes to your sales team
it's stored in the crm all the data for
the customer so then your team can
easily follow up with it and it's
managed in a secure system or perhaps
you want to look at things like google
analytics so you can measure traffic on
your website you can measure locations
session times conversion rates and much
more or perhaps user behavior and heat
map software so you can see how people
actually interact with your site main
areas they click get feedback do reviews
so something like hotjar is really good
for that so there's a bunch of things
you want to consider maybe you want to
do some seo tools like yoast so you can
add some certain plugins so
understanding what's going to be
important to integrate into your site
what's going to be important for your
sales team your marketing team your ops
team your operations
and then making sure that the platform
the way you choose to build the website
can cater for all those integrations
that are required which brings us to
number 10 which is your website platform
or your cms so cms stands for content
management system
and this is basically the back end of
your website so this is what your
website sits on this is where you can
log in or your team can all log in with
access and update your content perhaps
add new pages and manage
the main elements of your website to
keep it up to date keep it fresh and
update the content so something you want
to consider
one of the most popular
cms on the web is wordpress which is
used a lot for information based
websites and some online stores too
we tend to do a lot of website builds in
wordpress just because a lot of our
clients are service based b2b or tech
companies that want to generate leads
through their site so wordpress tends to
be a great fit because it's easy to
manage easy to update easy to update the
content and it ranks pretty well on seo
with a lot of customization a lot of
flexibility for growth but we do a lot
of custom projects too well maybe you're
looking at a dedicated online store so
you might want to consider things like
shopify or open cart magento there's so
many there but the main thing is to
really consider exactly what you want
this website to do so if it's purely
information based then there's a bunch
of cms that can suit you or as
e-commerce you might want to go for a
dedicated e-commerce platform
understanding the features you need and
making sure that your platform is going
to enable you to have those features and
also give your team
the ability the flexibility to make the
content updates you need nice and easily
before you crack on and either invest in
the software or invest in an agency or a
team to build it for you and last but
not least is marketing possibly one of
the most important parts of your website
so you might have heard us saying that
goes along the lines of build it and
they will come this couldn't be any less
true for your website if you build a
great all-seeing all-dancing website
that hits all the above goals you've
just chatted about if you don't market
it if you don't bring it to market you
don't advertise it in front of idle
clients it's almost all going to go to
waste
because most of you are going to want
your website to generate sales or
generate leads or generate inquiries or
build up your business build up your new
hires so unless you market it
effectively it's going to fail so you
need to make sure you save a decent
amount of budget these are not a cash or
resources to market advertise your
website effectively so a few medium to
long term ways to market your website
could be seo
getting your website organically ranked
on google maybe you start your own
podcast like this business growth show
marketing podcast where you can either
talk about your industry specific build
up reputation that way or you interview
ideal clients on your podcast to build
up reputation with them and then you
share it across different channels
maybe you start blogging you start
building articles you start building a
reputation that way maybe you start a
video channel so maybe you start your
own youtube channel and do similar
things this podcast showing actual tips
guides resources maybe you build up an
email list
so maybe everyone that you interact with
on other channels you capture their
email maybe you have a
ebook or a lead magnet or a guide or
maybe on your videos you prompt people
to sign up for email lists each week or
more frequently you're sharing tips and
you're building up a community you're
building a trust and eventually people
get in touch with you and reach out or
shorter term strategies might be things
like paid ads so whether that's focused
paid ads to your demographic your target
audience on linkedin
or perhaps it's direct on google search
so google adwords when people search for
your services your offerings you come up
right at the top in the paid ads and you
generate inquiries sales and leads
that way
all review sites so things like g2
trust radar a bunch of other
sponsored review sites where you can
basically pay for ads on these review
sites to position you well on the search
engines position you well on their
review sites and it's a great way to
capture leads for the short term
so i recommend doing a mix of short
medium and long term marketing and
advertising for your company reason
being is basically if you think of your
website as a foundation and if you think
of these marketing advertised channels
as casting out lines a bit like phishing
casting out lines in the water so you've
got multiple ways to attract idle
clients and bring in new customers new
enquiries new leads and also it means if
one marketing channel takes a hit
then you've got other channels
that you both own
and that you're renting a bit like
social media to continue to bring in
business even if one takes a hit of one
full shot if one stops working well
you've got a bunch of ways to drive idle
clients straight to you
and there you have it i hope this
checklist of what you need to do before
you build your website has been helpful
as always if you found this episode of
use a quick rating on your podcast audio
channel is really really helpful to us
or if you're on youtube a quick
subscribe goes a long long way
so thank you in advance and with that i
should catch you on the next episode
cheers